README.md, before:

# PokéSort

A React-based web application to browse and search Pokemon with German and English names.

## Features

- Browse all 1025 Pokemon (Generations 1-9)
- Search by Pokemon name (German or English) or Pokedex number
- View Pokemon sprites and information
- Recent searches history (stored in localStorage)
- Responsive design for mobile and desktop

## Tech Stack

- React 19
- Vite
- PokeAPI data (pre-fetched and stored locally)

## Getting Started

### Installation

```bash
npm install
```

### Initial Setup (One-time)

The Pokemon data has already been fetched and stored in `src/data/pokemon.json`. If you need to refresh the data, run:

```bash
npm run fetch-data
```

This will fetch all Pokemon data from PokeAPI and update the local JSON file.

#### Fetching Specific Pokemon

The fetch script includes several advanced features to handle API errors and fetch specific Pokemon:

**Fetch all Pokemon (default):**
```bash
npm run fetch-data
# or
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js
```

**Fetch specific Pokemon by number:**
```bash
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 25 144 150
```

**Fetch a range of Pokemon:**
```bash
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 1-151
```

**Combine ranges and specific numbers:**
```bash
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 1-10 25 50-55 100
```

#### Automatic Retry & Error Recovery

The script includes intelligent error handling:

- **Automatic Retries**: If the API returns a 500 error, the script automatically retries up to 5 times with exponential backoff (1s, 2s, 4s, 8s, 16s)
- **Data Preservation**: Existing Pokemon data is automatically loaded and merged with new fetches
- **Error Summary**: After completion, the script shows which Pokemon failed and provides the exact command to retry them

Example error recovery workflow:
```bash
# First run encounters errors
npm run fetch-data

# Output shows:
# ⚠️  Failed Pokemon IDs: 25, 144, 150
# 💡 To retry failed Pokemon, run:
#   node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 25 144 150

# Retry just the failed Pokemon
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 25 144 150
```

### Development

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) in your browser.

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
```

The production-ready files will be in the `dist` folder.

### Preview Production Build

```bash
npm run preview
```

## Project Structure

```
pokesort/
├── scripts/
│   └── fetchPokemonData.js    # One-time data fetch script
├── src/
│   ├── components/            # React components
│   │   ├── PokemonList.jsx
│   │   ├── PokemonListItem.jsx
│   │   ├── SearchBar.jsx
│   │   └── RecentSearches.jsx
│   ├── data/
│   │   └── pokemon.json       # Pre-fetched Pokemon data
│   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── usePokemon.js
│   │   └── useLocalStorage.js
│   ├── services/
│   │   └── pokemonData.js
│   ├── App.jsx
│   ├── App.css
│   ├── main.jsx
│   └── index.css
└── package.json
```

## How It Works

1. Pokemon data is fetched once during setup and stored in a local JSON file
2. The application loads all data from this static file (no runtime API calls)
3. Search and filtering happens entirely on the client side
4. Recently clicked Pokemon are stored in localStorage for persistence

## Data Source

All Pokemon data is sourced from [PokeAPI](https://pokeapi.co/).

Commit message:

Configure GitHub Pages deployment
- Add Vite base URL for GitHub Pages
- Create GitHub Actions workflow for automatic deployment
- Update README with live demo link and deployment instructions

README.md, after:

# PokéSort

A React-based web application to browse and search Pokemon with German and English names.

**Live Demo:** [https://wesselbaum.github.io/pokesort/](https://wesselbaum.github.io/pokesort/)

## Features

- Browse all 1025 Pokemon (Generations 1-9)
- Search by Pokemon name (German or English) or Pokedex number
- View Pokemon sprites and information
- Recent searches history (stored in localStorage)
- Responsive design for mobile and desktop

## Tech Stack

- React 19
- Vite
- PokeAPI data (pre-fetched and stored locally)

## Getting Started

### Installation

```bash
npm install
```

### Initial Setup (One-time)

The Pokemon data has already been fetched and stored in `src/data/pokemon.json`. If you need to refresh the data, run:

```bash
npm run fetch-data
```

This will fetch all Pokemon data from PokeAPI and update the local JSON file.

#### Fetching Specific Pokemon

The fetch script includes several advanced features to handle API errors and fetch specific Pokemon:

**Fetch all Pokemon (default):**
```bash
npm run fetch-data
# or
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js
```

**Fetch specific Pokemon by number:**
```bash
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 25 144 150
```

**Fetch a range of Pokemon:**
```bash
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 1-151
```

**Combine ranges and specific numbers:**
```bash
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 1-10 25 50-55 100
```

#### Automatic Retry & Error Recovery

The script includes intelligent error handling:

- **Automatic Retries**: If the API returns a 500 error, the script automatically retries up to 5 times with exponential backoff (1s, 2s, 4s, 8s, 16s)
- **Data Preservation**: Existing Pokemon data is automatically loaded and merged with new fetches
- **Error Summary**: After completion, the script shows which Pokemon failed and provides the exact command to retry them

Example error recovery workflow:
```bash
# First run encounters errors
npm run fetch-data

# Output shows:
# ⚠️  Failed Pokemon IDs: 25, 144, 150
# 💡 To retry failed Pokemon, run:
#   node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 25 144 150

# Retry just the failed Pokemon
node scripts/fetchPokemonData.js 25 144 150
```

### Development

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) in your browser.

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
```

The production-ready files will be in the `dist` folder.

### Preview Production Build

```bash
npm run preview
```

## Deployment

The application is automatically deployed to GitHub Pages when changes are pushed to the `main` branch.

### Setup GitHub Pages

To enable GitHub Pages for your fork:

1. Go to your repository Settings
2. Navigate to Pages (under Code and automation)
3. Under "Build and deployment":
   - Source: Select "GitHub Actions"
4. Push to main branch - the deployment will start automatically

The site will be available at: `https://[your-username].github.io/pokesort/`

## Project Structure

```
pokesort/
├── scripts/
│   └── fetchPokemonData.js    # One-time data fetch script
├── src/
│   ├── components/            # React components
│   │   ├── PokemonList.jsx
│   │   ├── PokemonListItem.jsx
│   │   ├── SearchBar.jsx
│   │   └── RecentSearches.jsx
│   ├── data/
│   │   └── pokemon.json       # Pre-fetched Pokemon data
│   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── usePokemon.js
│   │   └── useLocalStorage.js
│   ├── services/
│   │   └── pokemonData.js
│   ├── App.jsx
│   ├── App.css
│   ├── main.jsx
│   └── index.css
└── package.json
```

## How It Works

1. Pokemon data is fetched once during setup and stored in a local JSON file
2. The application loads all data from this static file (no runtime API calls)
3. Search and filtering happens entirely on the client side
4. Recently clicked Pokemon are stored in localStorage for persistence

## Data Source

All Pokemon data is sourced from [PokeAPI](https://pokeapi.co/).
